=head1 NAME

Class::Registry - A class name registry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Class::Registry;
  
  {
    package FooClass;
    Class::Registry->default(foo => 'FooClass');
  }
  {
    package My::FooClass;
    use base qw(FooClass);
    Class::Registry->set(foo => 'My::FooClass');
  }
  
  my $foo = Class::Registry->get('foo')->new;
  isa_ok $foo, 'My::FooClass';
  
  dies_ok {
    my $bar = Class::Registry->require('bar')->new;
  };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Class::Registry> module defines a registry for short names of
Perl classes (packages).  It might be useful where there could be
different sets of subclasses and a library does not know which set of
subclasses should be used a priori.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item Class::Registry->set($key => $package)

Register the package I<$package> with the short name I<$key>, even
when the name I<$key> has already been registered for other package.

=item Class::Registry->default($key => $package)

Register the package I<$package> with the short name I<$key>, only
when the name I<$key> is not registered yet.

=item $package = Class::Registry->get($key)

Returns the package name registered for the short name I<$key>, if
any, or false otherwise.

=item $package = Class::Registry->require($key)

Returns the package name registered for the short name I<$key>, if
any, or dies otherwise.  The package is C<require>d before returned.

=item $package = Class::Registry->load($key)

Returns the package name registered for the name I<$key>, if any, or
I<$key> itself, otherwise.  The package is C<require>d before
returned.  It is expected that I<$key> is the default package name,
which can be replaced by some subclass package name.

=item @keys = Class::Registry->keys

Returns a list of the registered keys.

=back

=head1 RECOMMENDED PRACTICE FOR KEY NAMING

There is no official naming rule for the I<$key> argument forced by
the module.  However, following convention is recommended:

=over 4

=item Use short lowercase name for project-specifc frequently used classes.

Examples: C<user>, C<spot>, C<message>, C<haikutarget>, C<cococoin>.

=item Use package name for modules or rarely used classes.

Examples: C<Karasuma::Pager::Simple>, C<MyApp::Object::User::ViewHistory>.

=back

Package name based key, combining with the C<load> method, would be
useful when a module can be extended for specific application as
subclass.  Consider the following example:

  package MyUsefulModule;
  sub some_useful_method { ... }

... and the module is subclassed for my application as:

  package MyApp::MyUsefulModule;
  push @ISA, qw(MyUsefulMethod);
  sub some_useful_method { ... }

Invocation for the method would look like:

  Class::Registry->load('MyUsefulModule')->some_useful_method;

By default, the method of the base (C<MyUsefulModule>) class is
executed.  This default can be overridden by setting the subclass name
before the C<load> method invocation:

  Class::Registry->set(MyUsefulModule => 'MyApp::MyUsefulMethod');

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

The latest version of this module would be available at:
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-ooutils>.

Snapshot (i.e. outdated) tarballs for the module might be available
from <http://wakaba.github.com/packages/perl/#Class-Registry>.

=head1 HISTORY

This module was originally developed as part of the Hatena Message
2010 project.

=over 4

=item 1.0 (2011-07-13)

First released version.

=item 2.0 (2012-05-31)

Removed L<UNIVERSAL::require> dependency.

=item 3.0 (2012-06-22)

Added C<load> method.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba (id:wakabatan) <wakabatan@hatena.ne.jp>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thanks to id:shiba_yu36 and id:motemen for their important advices.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2009-2012 Hatena <http://www.hatena.ne.jp/>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
